Matthew Montero, Gen Re.
Happy Thursday, everyone.
A little bit of a change of pace today.
So Rachel is on vacation.
How dare her?
But I'm stepping in to at least try to be a host for that Hangout.
Welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If this is the first time that you're joining, welcome.
We're super glad that you're here.
If you're returning, which I suspect a lot of you are, welcome back.
Love that.
As a reminder, this is a casual conversation and a casual environment.
So if you're here and you have thoughts, we want to hear from you, no matter how much
experience you have or don't have.
This space and this hour is really for you.
So with all that said, I want to introduce our leader or featured leader for the day,
Matthew Montero.
Super glad that you're here.
Maybe introduce yourself and tell us what's going on.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
Thank you.
So my name is Matthew Montero.
I head Enterprise Data Services within Gen Re on the IT side, actually, so it might be
a little bit different where we actually provide services for the business.
So whether that may be database services or data lake services, data science services,
which I think a lot of you guys would be interested in, and data reporting services.
And then with that, it's all about provide systems and applications that are hard-earned
by IT, but then also in a self-service way as well, meaning that here's a platform that
the business can build on or improve on, and we support to make sure that they'll stay
up and running.
My background actually is actuarial, about 12 years back, I graduated college, got a
hold of being an actuary, doing all those exams.
I landed into a job where I got to do both actuarial work, but then got a little flavor
analytics.
And from then, I grew to overseeing a team, building a team from ground up and overseeing
that team.
Eventually, I had a little time in pharmaceuticals, which I also was building a medical team to
solve the clinical trial automation challenge.
But then from there, I moved on to here, to eventually being a whole data organization
reporting to the CTO.
A little background.
Wonderful, and we're thrilled to have you.
If you're just joining in, I said it once, but I'll say it again, I'm stepping in for
Rachel this week, she's taking a vacation, doing my best.
There are a few ways to participate, we want to hear from all of you, so you can keep your
camera off, put your camera on, keep yourself on mute, take yourself off mute.
You can submit questions or comments via the Zoom chat, or you can use a Slido, which
is an anonymous link, so you can ask questions anonymously, and feel free to hop into the
conversation and ask anything that might be on your mind that you're curious about Matthew.
We usually start with a few standard things.
Matthew, I looked at your background, it's quite impressive, and interesting.
You've gone from what I think is an individual contributor role to quite a senior leadership
oriented role.
I was wondering if you could share a little bit about that journey with everyone?
Yeah, so even from the beginning, I was always interested in data, and also the process to
engineer that data to actually get some insights from it.
So being an actor is always very analytical and trying to solve that, so that's what my
individual contributor is like, let me build some applications, or let me try to find ways
to simplify that process, or at least automate the process from there.
But then when I was maybe five, six years into that space, I was like, well, I want
to start leading teams, I want to start building, working with others and mentor others to start
being able to do that.
So that's when I started becoming more of a team lead or a technical lead.
But once I got into pharmaceuticals, it was very different because the company was a lot
bigger, and then I had a pleasure to having a manager who was very focused on vision.
And so that's when I really got the feel for like, once you have a vision, and you can
sell that vision, then you have the ability to build as big as a team you want or need,
and be able to back that up with some either ways to improve the business or ways to even
improve the organization as a whole.
So with that knowledge that I gained through that, through experience of dealing with getting
consultants or getting new hires and coming and defining more strategy for that vision,
I moved on to the current company I'm with, Genree.
And it kind of fostered from there that, let me take this vision, let me define a little
further the way I feel it should be at this company, and then let me build a full strategy
around that.
Let me figure out from day one, when you get the data in, all the way to building applications
that use that data or the self-service round of other people wanting to use that data for
their analytical purposes, let me build that strategy around that.
And so being able to both build that strategy and communicate that to executives, to different
business units, the heads of different business units, it kind of moved me up higher relatively
fast in a sense, but it's being very confident in that vision and in the strategy and even
the principles around that as well.
And could you clarify what you mean by vision?
Yes.
So if you take a step back and you think of the data you have, and think of all the data
processes going back and forth, how is it actually going to work in a sense of data
ingestion?
Do you want a platform there, or do you think that it should just land in some folder?
Do you feel that everything should be in a database, or do you think something should
be in a data lake?
So once you get the data into it, now what happens to it?
Where does the data processing happen?
Does the business units themselves are going to be doing all of that, or should it be centralized?
And then from that point, now you have the data process, now what do you do with it?
Do you just create some canned reports and be able to have the executives to see that,
or do you go to our stream and tell your business, now take that data and do other stuff with
it, create their own report, get their own analytics analysis?
Then you got to take a step even further back of, well, what if you're in a global company?
Do you have to do this all at a central location, or do you have to split this up into regional
locations?
So it's really laying out the whole piece, the whole vision of how everything is going
to be.
You didn't go into the technicals yet of how to actually accomplish that, just how to view
what it all looks like.
And that's the first thing you got to sell, and because at least you have a vision, you
have something you can communicate to everyone.
And then that's when you kind of break down now, what's that strategy to accomplish that
vision?
Because you can't do all that in one day.
It's going to take some time.
So you have to have individual steps or a strategy to accomplish that.
And I'm more so personally curious, but again, everyone, you can put your own questions in
the Zoom chat and also in the Slido, and we'll prioritize those.
But at sort of what level of your career do you think it's appropriate to start thinking
about visions and at that sort of level of abstraction?
Yeah, so it got to where, at a time when I was a little bit earlier, it got to a point
when I was leading a team and I was asked to, how are you going to, you know my vision,
so my boss at the time, you know my vision, how are you going to make that vision happen?
Once I was given that and when I can sit down and actually really think through that, that's
when the moment excites in my head, like this is my next step, this is what I want
to be able to do is both to find that vision, to define that high level strategy to do it,
and then work with teams to actually make that happen.
And that was the time when it clicked on me, but I was excited about it a couple of years
back.
Great.
And for those who might be unfamiliar with Jen Rhee or sort of exactly what you do, could
you give a little background there, Jen Rhee, your role in it, where you fit in?
Yeah, so Jen Rhee is a general insurance company, we're a global company, we work, we build
the insurance policies directly, and I oversee the data department, so I report to the CTO
who oversees the whole IT department.
My job is to oversee anything regarding data, so we can think of databases, data lakes,
data reporting, data science, so anything from IT perspective, I oversee that, I create
the processes around there, I oversee the process around there, each of those verticals
would have their own managers in there that will take the overall vision or strategy and
see it through.
Yeah, so some of the pieces is just keeping lights on, so meaning if there's a database
up and running, we can think of it like a shell, like here's a database, business units,
they can use it the way they want it, but we'll just make sure that stays up and running,
if it goes off, but we'll make sure that, or it dies, we'll make sure that we get it
back up and running as soon as we can, or if they, or if you're doing some data recovery
or whatnot, we can, we will oversee that as well.
Great, and there is a question from Brittany in the chat, just want to make sure that we're
super clear, someone who's the head of, let's say data science first, I think your title
is data services, is there a difference, could you just clarify?
Yeah, so if you think of someone who's going to bring that service up and running, so I
think RStudio Pro would be a good example, so one of the things I did when I first started
was like, let's put RStudio Pro into our ecosystem, and so let's bring that, let's get all the
IT team all together, let's get all the infrastructure in, we had to get all the pieces, so once
you get, then you get installed and get it up and running, so that is the self-service
or enablement that my area do, so the services we provide is bringing that up and running
and providing it for the business to use, the data science from the business side, now
use that service, use that platform and build data science related products, might be an
office machine learning or whatnot, so it's kind of like, we build it, they will come
and use it, and if they want more features or they want changes to it, then they'll work
with us to actually make those changes happen.
Great, and Brittany, I see that you have a question in the chat, if you wouldn't mind,
do you want to hop in and ask that?
Yeah, sure, so just listening to you kind of in your career progressions, I'm at, you
know, selfishly at the point in my career now where I'm thinking what is next, and I'm
trying to think through like, what does that look like, how do, like as an analyst, what
are the next steps, what are the possible next things that I could do, I have some ideas,
but I really don't know like how to set those sort of, I'll call them like my five-year,
three-year types of career goals, do you have any advice for people in that kind of individual
contributor role as they're trying to think through how do I set a path for where I may
end up in the next like handful of years or so?
Yes, so great question, so the way I always look, I always think there's like 54 different
phases for someone in tech, as you do, you're an analyst, move to an engineer, and I'll
talk about each one in a second, you go to engineer, you go to architect, and you go
up to a principal, as an analyst, you come in and you guys go into different projects
and you're just trying to understand high level what is actually going on, right, dig
into some details and try to know where things are flowing, so you might not really know
how to come up with a solution, but at least you know what the problem is, and you might
be able to pinpoint where maybe a solution could fit.
The next phase is engineering, now I don't know the problem, now I need to actually start
coding and starting to solve that, and so an engineer will actually write the code or
work with people to write the code to solve the problem, and this might be a small problem,
it might be a large problem, but in general, they're just coders to get it done.
The next step is the architect.
The architect is someone who now would design that solution, right, so before an engineer
would come and solve it, well, an architect might have a high level view of how to solve
it, so it might be a hotfix, and you might just do a little bandaid, or it might be a
whole architecture change that has to happen, maybe moving on from having the code embedded
in there versus having API instead, so it might be a whole architecture change depending
on what is the extent of the challenge.
Then you have a principal, who kind of knows all those different pieces, but is able to
work with other architects and try to train them on, these are all different things we
could have done, or these are different things we could do, so maybe talk about how broad,
in a broad way, all the different solutions you could do, or the possibilities, or even
try to think together on stuff, so it's very much of that career projection of learning
new things along the way, and I think, and so myself, as a coder, and we talked a little
bit about this earlier, but I started out as just an R programmer, and I built applications
from the ground up, and I got more and more broad as I was touching more and more systems,
so meaning like, in the beginning, I was just touching R, and then start reaching out to
LaTeX, and then start reaching out to, well, now I need to work with databases, so let
me learn, given that there's a database up and running, let me start filling it up with
data, and then create an application process which interacts with data, and then it gets
even bigger and bigger and bigger, and then through that experience, this is how you kind
of move along that journey from an engineer, to an architect, to a principal, so I always
feel that the best leaders in the tech side, or an IT side, come from engineer backgrounds,
because they know what it's like to be in the weeds of things, being able to solve problems,
and also being architects, because they also have a higher view of what the solution could
be, that means they can talk to other architects, or other people with solutions, and kind of
have a higher view of how it works, they might not know all the kind of details at
that point in time, because they're no longer in the weeds of it, but they have the experience
of seeing different solutions, because in general, yeah, you might have different flavors
or words being used here, but in general, they're all similar enough.
Hopefully that helps. Do you have any follow-up questions?
Is that good, Brittany?
Yeah, I think maybe one quick follow-up question is, I know, at least for me, I definitely
love that individual contributor role, but I don't have necessarily an interest in, like,
the leadership, particularly, like, maybe the HR aspects of leadership, and those kinds
of things, so do you, like, how do you suggest people who have that interest in individual
contributor, and even, like, the mentoring of other individual contributors, but who
don't want the, like, HR-type responsibilities of, like, team leadership, how do you see
that playing into sort of how you plan out or think about your career progression?
Yeah, so there's, like, two routes you can go. You can go continue that principal route,
which you're, like, individual contributor knowledge very much of that. That's also another
flavor is a tech lead of that, meaning that you will oversee other people without, like,
but you're not directly manager-like, which is, which I did earlier on in my career. I
oversaw a lot of different programmers, and I was, well, they weren't on my direct reports.
I assigned to work. I did all that, so everything but the HR stuff, and then, of course, you
can go to other routes, which you get a little more disconnected from some of the work, but,
yeah, you go to people manager and then manager of managers type of role, but, yeah, it's,
I think you'll look more for, like, tech leads or leads of blah, blah, blah, and that's generally
what you'll be seeing. If you see titles such as heads of or manager or directors and stuff,
that's more people type of related role.
Awesome. Thank you.
Pressing on that a bit, Matthew. So, looking back, I'm curious, what are indicators of
opportunities that sort of speak to you or would speak to someone, like, that, I want to ask this
clearly, that indicate that, like, this is a project or an opportunity where I'm going to move
from sort of one stage of my career to another, or I'm going to become more senior, and, like,
what should people look for if that's what they desire?
Yeah, so, when I wanted to, or when someone wants to, like, take more of that management
role, then, it depends on the company, but what could happen is you start asking for consultants,
or you start bringing consultants and start mentoring them to solve whatever problem it is.
And once they start seeing, your managers are starting seeing that you're doing very well
with doing the interpersonal relationship and all that, then that can help identify that you're ready.
And, of course, communication with your manager is the key. I've always been very close with my
managers to make sure that I've known what are my goals, what do I plan to do, what do I want to do in the future,
and what can I do to demonstrate that I have that ability, or what are the things I should improve on
to show that I'm ready for that or will be ready for that.
But then the other thing is also being very, the communication ability is also key.
When I was way in the beginning, I wasn't good at presentations. I wasn't good at speaking in front of a large amount of people.
I was very shy, and I can go very technical really fast, and I just didn't know how to slow down
and make sure that, or be kind of says that not everyone understands the tech as well.
So I had to change the way I'm using the wording.
And so once I did a lot of soft skill growth in that, so I did a lot of different classes and whatnot.
And so once you start learning those skill sets, that actually helps you to move on to move on higher
because what I find is it's not really the beauty of that coding work and all of that that really the managers see.
It's your communication on how to present that and show why, and describe in words on why was this difficult challenge
or what benefit does this challenge itself and this challenge give.
And it's that that actually gets noticed. It's not, fortunately, not the work behind the scenes.
So like, for example, you build a giant application that can do so many different things.
They don't see those tens of thousands of lines of code, or hundreds of thousands of lines of code.
All they see is the app itself. So then that is your key selling point is what is in the app that's useful there.
What is elegant there? Because if you talk about a code, they're not going to be that interested.
Very good. I'm switching over to the Slido questions.
And one question is, can you talk about any challenges you faced in setting up the systems,
environments for data science leaders and in working with them to get what they wanted?
Yes. So the biggest challenge was, at least in the beginning.
So a little while back when like analytics and data science was kind of new.
And so you're trying to bring in platforms that no one knew how to do or install because it's new.
But then, too, is a culture change of allowing people to start having access to stuff and start building products on the business side.
And so that was one of the biggest challenges was just changing the culture.
And then in addition to that, when it comes to the technical side, is now it's no longer having an application connect to one thing.
You want to have an application that can just in general connect to anything.
And so that's also a little shift of how things work. So at the time I was in business,
we had to come up with our own test cases to run through all the database connections or run other jobs to make sure things work.
And now the only way you could bring it into the company was by doing that, because otherwise then it becomes a full IT owner owned project and all that.
And just it's a little different. So nowadays, I think companies are getting or IT departments are getting much more open to these analytics systems.
But I think back then it was a little more challenging.
Yeah, I'll press a little bit. I think there might be a perception that IT is difficult to work through or work with.
Curious your thoughts on that perception and what you would say.
So it was a lot eye opening for me when I'm moving from business to IT.
And I learned and appreciate a lot more of why it's so difficult.
And there's a lot of things we don't think about when we're in the business side.
I mean, we do, but how much work it actually takes that we don't think about.
For example, when we say let's bring a platform into our studio, when I say bring our studio into the environment,
we can just make a request like that and then hopefully one day someone will bring it in or IT will bring it in.
But then let's take a step back and see what IT does for that.
Well, IT would first need to do a full review of that product.
It would open up to security concerns, the data loss.
What are the installation tech needs to be?
So meaning like do we need VMs? How big of VMs do we need?
How big of a use case do people have?
What about other use cases that are going to be leveraging this?
For example, whatever you want to use, TensorFlow or, you know, it's a modeling software.
So that's an extension to that application.
What about communication? Like you have RStudio Connect.
So who's going to actually monitor that?
Are we going to bring it up and running and then someone else is going to oversee it?
What about actual support of these things to keep it up and running?
So if a ticket comes, like you can't access RStudio, who's going to support that?
So we have to make sure it's a support team actually in line for that.
What is the SLAs? I mean, what is the third level agreement?
Meaning that if I'm making requests to have access to the service, well, how long should it take for that to be actually done?
And then who actually is going to fulfill those?
Is it the data side? Is it the security side?
You've got to determine all that.
What about the whole architecture?
Like if you're a global company, well, you need to think about do I need regional setups or do I need just one giant one?
What about all the databases that connect to you?
Consider data privacy, data localization.
And what about a failover?
So meaning that if your whole IT center just turned off, how do you make sure everything comes back on and running?
They're running somewhere else.
Disaster recovery.
All those things need to be thought about.
All those things need to be considered.
And so the appreciation of that happens when I move over.
I get these questions now all the time when I'm putting in a new system.
It's like, oh, we have to think about all these different items in order to even get started with it.
There is an anonymous question.
I'd be curious if you'd be willing to share a great example of how your team has had a big impact.
Also, are actuaries as fun and exciting as they say?
Yeah, so I talked about doing my actuary days.
So there's a couple of products we brought up, and one of them was dealing with data validation.
And so this is one of the first big applications that we're using Shiny to do.
And the accomplishment came from the fact that this was business created, business driven.
This is a very different shift from the old days where the IT side would build applications, build everything from scratch.
Instead, business built it.
And not only did we build it, but we had test cases.
We used code.
We used databases.
We had staging.
We had dev staging and prod.
We have all those different things that a general IT team would have.
We rolled that out and made it available because now it's on the web page and people can access it without needing no code.
And so that was probably the biggest eye-opening for that.
And, yes, actuaries, we are not so ‑‑ I think that idea of actuaries being very introverted and whatnot is at least the ones I know are very outgoing and very passionate about the numbers and about the statistics and the work they do.
So maybe that's a new generation actuary coming up.
A little more on that.
There's a hybrid anonymous, not anonymous question submitted by Sam through Slido.
I'm a statistician slash data scientist who has to work with many actuaries.
How are data science and actuarial science different or similar?
Yeah, so from my view, a data science person or data scientist should be able to jump into any domain and all they need to know is where's the data, what is the data, show me the data dictionary, what is the insight you're trying to get out of there and maybe understand the business process.
An actuary kind of knows a whole domain.
So might be if there's an actuary slash data scientist would I think have a little edge in the sense of they understand the methodology behind it all and can give insight on how to actually build analysis around that.
Without that, a data scientist might be a little bit lost unless they have to work closely with business to do that.
So it's kind of like that.
Either you start from scratch, don't know much, but you can learn quickly and find the right people to do it or you have someone who as an actuary slash data scientist can have enough to get started and run with it.
Very good.
Also anonymous.
What new processes have you brought to generate?
How big of an impact?
I guess we can append that.
What impact are you hoping to make in the next one year, five years?
I can't get too much into that.
But I will say that understanding the power of data is what I'm targeting.
I can't really divulge more than that.
Understood.
No problem.
Let's see.
If you can share, what tools does Gen Re use for catastrophe modeling?
That's a little specific for me as we just provided services for usage of that tool.
Gotcha.
And then another anonymous question.
What kinds of things worked for you in changing the culture in your organization?
I think getting the right personnel in place.
So finding people that are passionate about data science or whatever topic it is and being expert in that and both the engineering level, like I was saying earlier, but also at the leadership level.
I think that's a way to make things change because at the end of the day, people want to hear things from the experts and people who have had a lot of experience doing that, both from leadership and from actually doing the work.
I had a question that I thought of, which is, as you've progressed in your career, is there any sort of discomfort around pulling away from the actual pools and in the weeds and building applications?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
So it's like I'm trying to stop myself from jumping into a project and start running code.
And it's more because I need to be, I want to be able to more mentor others to be able to do that and to the different wireframes I build or oversee or the methodologies that I've done.
I have spent more time on strategy and more of those type of high-level questions and discussions.
And so I would like to dig in.
I still write R Markdown books internally.
I still write little applets or small pieces of code if something's really challenging.
But, yeah, I haven't really coded, I want to say, for a couple of years now.
And I do mess up a little bit.
And I always have my fun once in a while.
I come from the old days.
So base R was my background.
So I can write base R very, very thoroughly.
So it's always fun when some of the new people will come up with a tidy verse and all that and do that.
This is the way to do it.
It's the only way to do it.
And it's a little fun to be like, okay, you can do it this way.
Let's do a little benchmarking.
And I'll show you some differences you can do.
So it's always fun when you have the old timer trying to show the new people there is some stock in the old knowledge.
So, you know, when you're sponsoring or managing people, how do you balance sort of giving direction or, like, saying, you know, this is what I would do?
Or, like, hop in and actually do that?
Like how do you determine that line?
I guess it's so blurred that I don't know.
As a manager, manager of managers, my job is to make sure that the overall direction the vertical is going continues the right path.
So that's basically how far I go with the management of managers.
I try to make sure that we have a shared vision or shared idea of where we're going to go the next year, the next five years.
So it's very much that.
When it comes to the mentoring part, it really depends on what vertical we're focusing on.
Because I have a lot of trust and a lot of faith in each of these verticals.
And so I let them drive where they go as long as it follows that vision or follows our path.
And I let them escalate things to me where things are either got a little bump in the road and need some course correction or we need additional resources or whatnot.
So, yeah, this is very much of a trust thing.
Thank you. There's a question from Alan in the chat.
Alan, if you want to ask it.
Welcome.
Hi. Sure. Yeah, often.
I'm curious about a little bit more detail. Matthew about your move into it and if there were things that you found to be particularly effective in streamlining.
Some of those it process requirements resourcing sustainment.
You know, the implementation etc. Those are familiar dilemmas for us as well.
And I'm used to seeing folks I think come from it to business and then we have to realize how do we ask things, having just left that function.
So I'm curious if there are specific things that you feel made that successful.
And if you also had to negotiate being sort of in, in, you know, being constrained by conflicting priorities within it.
And just, you know what that what helped there or what or what hindered you there.
Yes.
Questions.
I might not remember them all.
But I think.
I think that I think the big thing is coming from a business side, moving on to an IT.
Coming from a coding background, or like a technical background, is that I have a have a flavor of both the way to communicate or to to change the language from a technical language into a business language because I've been in business I can talk
statistics helps a lot. So having someone to be able to do that translation helps with the communication with business, because if you don't have that things get lost in between.
You don't want to get to a point when you're over complicating and with technical knowledge because sometimes business doesn't care about that part they care about what's actually being delivered.
And then from the IT side. I also would need to be able to come up with actual technical requirements or a technical needs that I need to get from the IT side so maybe it's infrastructure maybe some security, which are technically inclined.
And so I need to make sure I can also talk in that language. So it's very much of being, being someone who can do both of those communications or interpreter, as well as someone who can have the direction of where they want to go with it all, but how that being able to be interpreted
at the same time is, I want to say, very beneficial.
I think I've had all the hits everything but Alan, feel free.
I think being able to sort of speak the kind of language in each of those domains is really important to dig in a tiny bit more like did you have to.
Did you have to compete for limited it resources, and were there things that made that particularly effective.
I wouldn't say compete.
It's more of convincing on the priority of different projects. So, as long as there's alignment, along, along the senior management of it.
These are the projects that are going on, and these are the ones that are getting prioritized and if there's a resource need there then that's kind of like where that discussion is happening.
So as long as there's alignment and discussion happening then it's fine.
So I wouldn't.
Thank you, appreciate that.
There's an anonymous question that asks, what advice would you give someone managing a data science team. And I think we can just apply it more broadly, a team for the first time.
I'm having a lot of check ins in the beginning.
So, so there's a lot of different approaches that I've tried a couple of them is during a stand up so meaning that having those five minutes, 10 minutes, call for the whole team figure out what all the, all the times is this lovely also have some interactive
personal pieces there.
But then also having those one on one to like so each of my direct reports, I have a one on one with them every, every week for an hour. And that's just to talk about random stuff.
And, and it's not really for me it's never been about like asking for permission for stuff it's more of what is, what is your, what is, what are you doing with your data science team.
And then we can come up with a solution together.
But then also talking about actual projects and, and it's not really for me it's never been about like asking for permission for stuff it's more of what is, what is your, what is, what are you trying to solve.
What is your solution. And then does this, does this make sense and let's ask the right questions and then we can come up with a solution together.
So it's trying to, again, build that trust with, with each, each of your direct reports so you oversee an engineering team, you want them to try to give you what are the solutions, what are their solutions because you got to weigh it.
You don't want to always like say that, oh, this is the only way. There's, there's many ways it's just this different, different approaches that might take different times and different that so that's where you kind of level it and kind of talk it through.
Can I ask what the structure of these check ins are you said, random topics but is it is it truly agenda list.
Oh yeah, no I have a series already set up so all I can all my reports are once a week.
I have overall management meetings, and I set up once a month and so yeah, I just make sure that on the calendar right so that I'm not going to worry about making those out to the back.
So, six to
Very good. A few more anonymous questions I see Sally asked a question in the chat, get to that in a second.
What are your favorite resources for keeping up with the industry and self studying.
Yeah, so I, I always look.
It depends on whatever I'm working on a time so for a while I got really big into visualization, so I will look up what are the best books about visualizations what are the best authors and I'll buy a bunch of books and read those and then, then the subject
may turn into what about leading a data area so the books and so it really depends on what subject is of interest at that time or related to whatever I'm working on.
So yeah, it's.
I always, I tend to go the book route that's a hard copy route.
But if I'm just like wanting to know what's going on insurance tech I would just just hop on internet just look up some articles or whatnot but in general, it's always books related.
Awesome.
Sally, would you mind asking your question live.
Hey, yeah.
Hey Matthew I appreciate.
So, as a leader, it is very important to see you know those beneath you next to you or whatever, see them grow and prosper, same as you.
So, as a leader, how are you facilitating that growth in your teammates. So, you know, personally and professionally there's. If you're not growing then you're not becoming you know better you know some people like me I want to be a leader one day.
And, but also I want to be a better person.
Better person that's so you know I mean.
So, what are you doing like what steps you have examples on how you are helping that the growth in your teammates.
Yeah, so a couple of different ways. So, one is a little bit to my earlier example is that I would like people to come with me, come up to me with the challenge but also the solution at least the initial scratch of the solution, and let's work
together. And so, that brings ability to one learn how to communicate a little more to thinking really about the challenge and then defining a possible solution or even just starting at that like what what can we start with and work from there.
And then, and then also the giving them bigger projects like I have projects that range from little tiny ones that might be a couple months work or you have a couple of year one so putting into different projects and and I'm always again always very open.
I always want my drug report to tell me what do they want like I always think I've done this maybe like two or three times a year, maybe a little more like what are your goals.
What do you want to do, where do you want to, where do you want to be in a couple of years or what kind of challenges you want me to give to you to grow.
And the other side of that is
I have a budget for doing seminars or conferences or whatever. So I encourage those to go to those like, for example, one of my direct reports went to our studio conference, because they oversee our studio, so it made sense to be able to go to those
So I'm very much of encouragement to go to those that I wanted to experience that learn from others, not everyone does can know all the different pieces that are so you can do so there's a great opportunity to talk to others about that so that.
I encourage to be using those but I also encourage them to communicate with others during that time. Yeah, for sure. And so, say, you know, these people, you're giving them a lot of all these resources to do all these things.
Um, but what if they all they know is, I want to, I want to leave one day, or, you know, I want to be a C suite executive one day, but they don't know really what they want, how are you able to bring that out of them.
Yeah, so I think it's getting different opportunities right so if there's a small project, well, why not lead that project and, and we can find you a consultant to work with you.
Yeah, so it's just very encouraging encouraging that open communications. I think that's key because otherwise yeah you won't know what you want until you actually start getting a feel for what you're doing.
Yeah, exactly. I love that and I'm going to definitely take that with me. Just all those great ideas. Thank you.
Matthew you've, you've mentioned, I think, twice now, I'm managing consultants are working with consultants as sort of a way to develop leadership managerial skills.
It's a great perspective. I honestly I haven't heard it before I'm curious if like you're making that point sort of, I'm assuming purposefully but like if that's something that you've actually thought through.
Yeah, no.
You want to be more of a, I think, either or if you want to be a tech lead or a manager, you have to know how to work with other people. And, and so, because in order to lead, either people person or as a tech person like you really need to be able to communicate
with others, teach others mentor others or whatnot. You could just be a individual contributor who is only focused on I give one given a task I'm going to do that very well and that's perfectly fine.
If you want to start working with other people like you need to find an opportunity to be able to be doing that.
So, yeah, I might be using consultant as loose very loosely but I mean, a resource.
It's a great insight. There's a question in the chat from Ricardo. If you want to ask it live, give you a few seconds to hop in.
Oh, my. Okay, Robert Can you hear me. We can hear you Ricardo welcome. Okay, thank you Robert for accepting my, my question, Matthew How are you doing.
Good. So Matthew, yes.
You know I was listening to you and your experience as a leader. And, you know, I have been exposed to, you know, leadership talks and I have read about it.
And in general, I have discovered kind of two different ways to leave. One is leadership as a process where you have a team and you teach them the procedures, and you develop, you know procedures in order or protocols in order to find solutions.
And the other one is either or non mutual exclusive, where you lead by example, where you develop virtues and those virtues are transmitted as an example to your team.
So, you know, which one is the one that you have found more important in your personal experience.
I think it'd be more of a hybrid of two, because
if you if you just focus on leading through processes or procedures, then you're more of a technical leader in the sense of I built, we've defined a process and you just follow this.
So you make that you make the
define the wireframe define all that and it just follow it.
To me that's a little more of a technical leader.
But on the other side of that,
you need to be able to also communicate and I think that is where it gets you to more of the manager type of leader or the leader manager managers, because you got to communicate outside of your team.
So, you might be leading your own team might be doing on that but you can't get from there to outside of your team so other managers other leaders, then you're, you're going to be kind of stuck.
So it's, it's.
I had to do both of those at the same time. So I can leave my own team, create processes, create some examples, but then I also need to communicate that this is what we've been doing.
Ricardo does that sufficiently answer your question.
I was. Yes and no. I mean, it's, I'm sorry just just to push a little bit. No apologies.
Okay, fine. That's your fault.
Okay, Matthew I just, I was, so I was reading comments. And I think that this idea kind of resonate with me managers do things right. Leaders do the right things.
So that's, that's kind of, I was heading to.
When you do to do the right things for your team. So, so how that goes in.
Starting from you.
Okay, so people you're managing people you are interacting with other people, but that forces you you want to lead them to do the right thing to them, even if that's painful.
So, I'm going to try to change how that question is, at least my understanding. So you're saying that, what, what are the ways that I'm leading that will benefit the team, what style of leadership I'm doing to benefit the team.
Yes, I think that is a good way to put.
Okay, so, so I actually do a mixture of all those right so I, if I'm, if I'm looking at or viewing a, a, a group, and I see that maybe there's any gaps or anything that can be improved on well I'll work with that team to see what are the process we can put in place
to see if I can actually solve that is there's a gap is the process gap or is this something that, or maybe it's just a communication gaps and that's a little different.
But then when it comes to a new area, or something I'm trying to bring in, then I might build that process or I might build a example of what that looks like so say for example, I want to build a, a training dashboard.
I want to build a first to actually to actually give a demonstration on what's like so I might put together a simple example of a training dashboard and be able to explain like why is it beneficial why is that is this like a quick minimum MVP of that.
So, I kind of do a mixture of all those.
Thank you.
There's a slide of question. What are some recent developments in the data services tech platform space that you're excited about, such as database tech streaming real time services, and the laps, dot dot dot.
I think a lot. What's exciting and we haven't got a chance to really spend too much time on it but is the idea of the AC interface to build training apps without code, meaning that you can create the UI generator.
That's actually something that I was trying to do a couple years back.
I would do that.
And I got pretty far on it but then things shifted, and then I thought how to stop that project. And then, but I've seen them like wow, this is actually very nice better than what I was doing, and then.
But yeah, no, that is, I think, opening a door for new things to happen. And so I'm excited to see what is going to come from that. So we haven't got a chance to really dig into that.
Yes, but it's something we want to dig into, and I have a feeling it's going to open up more users.
There's a question, an anonymous question that probably warrants it's its own full session but let's see if we can give a good concise answer.
Essentially, how do I jump into tech, I have zero experience but I'm interested, what approach and mindset should a person be in.
So I think it really depends on what you're doing now.
So, one of the things.
When I first started working.
So, I was on the split team one was focused on modeling and other one was focused on actuarial.
So, and they're very split, and since that was only the output of the modeling, so maybe reports and whatnot were actually used by the experts, it was never the code part.
So I tried to then, during my work I find some things that may be inefficient or maybe it can be improved on. And so I then brought my knowledge and coding into that space, take all that as a side project and create some process that might be simplified.
So I learned everything from the ground up from that, and then not one improved my own skill set, but then to add it demonstrated to management or to other other individuals of here's the potential of using tech.
I'm going to press a little bit more so like the types of roles that are let's call them like tech adjacent like business analyst comes to mind.
Curious if you have any any thoughts there so like in the world of tech, but not quite, you know, a programming or tech role.
So, probably an analyst of some sort, because at the time I believe my title was actuarial analyst.
But yeah, it's analyst role right so you you are in the weeds of things, an actual business process, you find areas or challenges that could be improved upon.
And then you take on an injury more engineering type of mindset of, let me, let me see if I can come up with a solution using code might not think of the whole thing from end to end or I might not think of what the actual impact to the whole business
but just in my little little piece of work, let me see if I can try and improve on it.
So yeah, I think it's easiest is when you're an analyst, I think you have a little, little more.
You're very close to everything without.
And maybe having more of the bandwidth to be able to do some of these high projects.
Very good. And we're approaching the top of the hour I think maybe let's cap the session off with a question of, I think, I think most of the people who attend the hangout would consider themselves like firmly in the data science space correct me if I'm wrong
in the zoom chat I actually don't know, but that's I think that's our running assumption and Matthew you have the privilege of sort of being in both both data science, and now, it oriented.
If you could give a tip or multiple tips to data scientists working with it what would that be being very forthcoming on what you.
What are all the things that you can want to do right so it's not as simple as saying, I want a platform to be available for data scientists and for myself it's more of what are you really trying to accomplish with that platform because it might be modeling
is a little bit more complicated than I think just saying that I want a platform. And so if you open those channels of communication, get the support of upper management and it.
And of course your own business side.
That's what you can accomplish those things.
If you don't have the support of the IT side or imagine on either side, you're going to be pretty fast. So you really need to make sure that communication channels there and if you're not that person that is ready to take that on in the sense of having
that communicate open channel on that make sure to find that person because you.
There's a lot of communication needs to happen.
I just heard you say, let's do everything rogue. Don't bring it.
So if people would want to get in touch with you.
How can they do that.
Yeah, LinkedIn is probably the easiest way so I think my LinkedIn is somewhere on the original chat so that's probably the best way to get ahold of me.
Emails pretty tough.
pop that in the chat.
As always, thank you everyone for your participation and Matthew. Thank you.
Awesome.